README.md, before:

# couchdocs
Command-line tools to operate with JSON files in sync with CouchDB

## Installation
```
npm install -g couchdocs
```

## Usage

#### (c) Create CouchDB Database from all merged JSON documents in current folder
```
couchdocs create
couchdocs create http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

#### (r) Delete existing and re-create CouchDB database from all merged documents in current folder
```
couchdocs recreate
couchdocs recreate http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

#### (u) Update Database document using local json file
```
couchdocs update foo.json
couchdocs update --id _design/backend design_backend.json
```

### (a) Partial database autoupdate

Read section in couchdocs file, it can declare what exact types or what documents can be safely autoupdated.
`[autoupdate]` section can contain types that should be auto updated.
`[exclude]` section can contain documents that should be auto updated.

```
couchdocs autoupdate
couchdocs autoupdate  http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

Typical Example of couchdocs sections for configuring autoupdates
```
[autoupdate]
_id=_design/servers _design/public _design/auth
type=template layout widget webapp-config

[exclude]
_id=User-Backup
```

### (s) Save database into JSON files

Each document becomes a separate file
```
couchdocs save
```

### (z) Create tarball from JSON files in current folders

```
couchdocs zip
```

## .couchdocs File Configuration Example
Contains properties of CouchDB connection which should be applied for sync of JSON files in the current folder.
```
[couchdb]
db=testdb
url=http://localhost:5984/
```
You could also use `COUCH_URL` and `COUCH_DB` variables too for database specification.

Use `-v` to have a verbose output about what is going on.

## Disclaimer

1. This CLI tool is designed *only for Linux/Unix* systems, so most of operations will not work on Windows if you have no Cygwin tools.
2. Development is still in progress, please use at your own risk and feel free to leave your feedback in `Issues`.

## Will be added before released
- Support of big databases
- More suitable error handling

## You might also use

Other useful CLI utilities:

- https://github.com/zaach/jsonlint
- https://github.com/glynnbird/couchbackup

Commit message:

add more information on verbost on autoupdate operation

README.md, after:

# couchdocs
Command-line tools to operate with JSON files in sync with CouchDB

## Installation
```
npm install -g couchdocs
```

## Usage

#### (c) Create CouchDB Database from all merged JSON documents in current folder
```
couchdocs create
couchdocs create http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

#### (r) Delete existing and re-create CouchDB database from all merged documents in current folder
```
couchdocs recreate
couchdocs recreate http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

#### (u) Update Database document using local json file
```
couchdocs update foo.json
couchdocs update --id _design/backend design_backend.json
```

### (a) Partial database autoupdate

Read section in couchdocs file, it can declare what exact types or what documents can be safely autoupdated.
`[autoupdate]` section can contain types that should be auto updated.
`[exclude]` section can contain documents that should be auto updated.

```
couchdocs autoupdate
couchdocs autoupdate  http://example.com/database.tar.gz
```

Typical Example of couchdocs sections for configuring autoupdates
```
[autoupdate]
_id=_design/servers _design/public _design/auth
type=template layout widget webapp-config

[exclude]
_id=User-Backup
```

### (s) Save database into JSON files

Each document becomes a separate file
```
couchdocs save
```

### (z) Create tarball from JSON files in current folders

```
couchdocs zip
```

### (b) Back up all databases using couchbackup into current folder

Each database would be saved as compressed .tar.gz file. `couchbackup` will be salled, so it should be installed for that operation
```
couchdocs backup
```

## .couchdocs File Configuration Example
Contains properties of CouchDB connection which should be applied for sync of JSON files in the current folder.
```
[couchdb]
db=testdb
url=http://localhost:5984/
```
You could also use `COUCH_URL` and `COUCH_DB` variables too for database specification.

Use `-v` to have a verbose output about what is going on.

## Disclaimer

1. This CLI tool is designed *only for Linux/Unix* systems, so most of operations will not work on Windows if you have no Cygwin tools.
2. Development is still in progress, please use at your own risk and feel free to leave your feedback in `Issues`.

## Will be added before released
- Support of big databases
- More suitable error handling

## You might also use

Other useful CLI utilities:

- https://github.com/zaach/jsonlint
- https://github.com/glynnbird/couchbackup
